1) Implement Bubble Sort followed by Binary Search on single dim. int array

2) Accept a value as command line argument. Find the next prime number to that value.
(hint : int x = Integer.parseInt(args[0]); )

3) Implement (Square) Matrix Transpose.

4) Implement Stack using Array.

5) Using singleton pattern design a Logger classes. 
It serves a global logging access point.
(Log messages using System.err and ahead use files).
Design 2 more classes that use the common
object of Logger for outputting errors while
their operations (functions) are performed (run).

6) Implement a N Queens Problem using backtracking technique.
The board must hold Queen Objects.
The display method must output:
Coordinates, QueenName, KillingCapacity and whether the queen is MainQueen or not.

7) Create a Binary Search Tree in Java.
It must have create() and inorder() methods.
Implement recursive inorder.
Define a derived class D_BST.
It overrides the inorder() and provides non recursive definition.

From main() call a test() method that takes super 
class reference to accept object of BST and of 
D_BST.
In test() call create and inorder.
Study the executing methods. 


8)Make a package Searcher
* Define and put a class Search with methods :
 sequentialSearch
 binarySearch
 fibonacciSearch
* Define and put a non public class Sort in it that would have method
  bubbleSort() It would be internally called by binarySearch
* Define a class that imports the package
Uses various methods of Search 
to search values in an int array.

9) Using two threads (main, custom thread) add even and odd numbers of a large array.

10) Using thread coordination convert the sync.java to output HELLO SHARED RESOURCE in order.

11) Open a file for reading. Count the number of words in the file.

12) Take a word (String) from user. Find it in a file and return true or false. 

13) Implement a file search by name. It recursively finds a file in a directory and sub directories. 

14) Implement a Java program that copies all images of a drive into a preset backup folder.

15) Pass a file name from the client. If in a fixed directory the file exists then server sends file content to the client 
otherwise file not available message. If available then the client receives and store the file locally.

16) Create a GUI application to add/subtract/multiply/divide 2 numbers.

17) Create a image slider using Jpanel(grid 1*5), 5 labels ,10 imageicons and thread.

18) Study the external and the heap sort (code attached).

19) Develop a GUI based Tic Tac Toe application.

20) Read a folder content. Water mark all the images in it with text : "THESE ARE MINE"
